Title: Lineage in DvSum
URL: https://dvsum.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/33694180953108-Lineage-in-DvSum
================================================================================

Overview
Data lineage in the DvSum Application provides a comprehensive view of the data's journey, helping users understand how data moves, transforms, and interacts across systems. It offers a visual map of the data flow, from the source to the destination, showing all stages of transformation and any dependencies involved. By utilizing data lineage, it is possible to trace the movement of data in real time, detect issues quickly, and assess the impact of changes to processes. This feature is essential for improving data transparency, ensuring data quality, and maintaining compliance with governance standards. This article covers the following topics:
Prerequisites for Data Lineage
Performing a Lineage Scan
Step 1: Navigate to Data Sources
Step 2: Initiate a Scan
Step 3: Select Scan Options
Step 4: View Scan Details
Understanding Lineage Visualization
Lineage View
Footer Options
Header Options
Placeholder Tables
Data Quality (DQ) Observability and Data Classification
DQ Observability
Data Classification
Exploring Functional and Technical Lineage
Functional Lineage
Technical Lineage
ETL Nodes
Managing Lineage Permissions in User Roles
Permission Levels
Entity Level vs. Entity-Attribute Level
Current Functionality
Demonstration
Adding an Upstream Node
Supported Data Sources
Prerequisites for Data Lineage
To enable effective data lineage in the DvSum application, the following prerequisites must be met:
Complete Database and Schema Scan:
Ensure that all relevant databases, schemas, and their associated tables/views are scanned in the DvSum application.
Query History Configuration:
Query history must be enabled for your data sources to derive both functional and technical lineage. For detailed instructions, refer to the
Enable
Query
History
for
Data
Sources
article.
Comprehensive Query Tracking:
Ensure all query types relevant to lineage (e.g.,
INSERT
,
MERGE
,
UPDATE
, and
SELECT
) are captured and made available for lineage analysis.
Lineage Extraction from Procedures, Functions, and Notebooks:
To successfully capture lineage from Stored Procedures, Functions, and Databricks Notebooks, users must have the necessary access permissions based on the source system:
Databricks:
The user must authenticate using a
Personal Access Token
.
The user must have access to
Databricks Notebooks
.
Snowflake:
The
user cataloging the Snowflake source must be the owner of the stored procedure
being used. Without this ownership, DvSum will not be able to extract lineage information.
For instructions on how to grant ownership, refer to the
Configure Snowflake as a Source
article.
All Other Sources:
The user must have access to the relevant stored procedures to retrieve lineage information.
Performing a Lineage Scan
Step 1: Navigate to Data Sources
Access the
Data Sources
section in the application.
Select the desired data source.
Step 2: Initiate a Scan
Navigate to the
Scan History
tab.
Click the
Scan Now
button, which provides the following options:
Profile
: Profiles data assets.
Lineage
: Tracks and visualizes the data flow.
The catalog scan runs by default. Users can use checkboxes to select additional scan types.
Step 3: Select Scan Options
Selecting the
Lineage
checkbox triggers a lineage scan.
Selecting both
Profile
and
Lineage
options triggers all three scans (Catalog, Profile, and Lineage) simultaneously.
This setup allows for the customization of scans based on specific requirements.
Step 4: View Scan Details
Locate the scan name and click on it to access detailed insights.
The detailed Insights are displayed as such:
Navigate to the
Table Detail
page for further exploration.
Understanding Lineage Visualization
Lineage View
The lineage visualization opens in a new tab, displaying:
Reference Node
(center): The selected table or view.
Upstream Nodes
: Sources influencing the reference node.
Downstream Nodes
: Entities impacted by the reference node.
Footer Options
Expand All Upstream Nodes
: Displays all upstream relationships.
Reference View
: Tables reference view ID displayed
Set Context
: Focuses the lineage on a specific node or column.
In the example, lineage is already set for a node, but any other node can be selected as Context:
Resetting to the original node is still an option if another node is set:
Expand Columns: All the columns can be expanded and have the same footer options as tables:
Placeholder Tables in Lineage
Placeholder tables are tables that exist in the database but are not recognized within the application. These tables are visually indicated by a dotted line around their boundary and placeholder text will be written on the node.
Key behaviors of placeholder tables:
They will
not be accessible elsewhere
in the application except in the lineage view.
The
Reference View
for placeholder tables
will not open
.
The
Reference View for their columns will also not open
.
Other than the above two options, the rest of the options on the placeholder node will be the same as that of any other table node.
This ensures that users can now identify and track placeholder tables within the lineage flow while maintaining standard lineage functionalities.
Header Options
Search:
Search for specific tables, nodes, or columns within the lineage view. Searches highlight all relevant elements, providing a quick way to locate specific data flows.
Reset View
: Resets the visualization to the default reference node view.
Share Lineage:
Shares a link to this lineage view with people or groups
Layers:
This displays two new options when clicked
Data Quality (DQ) Observability and Data Classification
DQ Observability
: Highlights upstream nodes in the lineage view with active alerting rules applied.
Data Classification
: Sensitive data tags and classifications (e.g., PII, PCI) are prominently displayed within the lineage visualization.
Exploring Functional and Technical Lineage
Functional Lineage
Functional lineage illustrates the data flow at an abstract level, showing tables, columns, and relationships (Everything discussed above was Functional Lineage)
Technical Lineage
Technical lineage includes:
Source and target code blocks derived from query history.
Attribute-level insights are not available for precise analysis.
If the angle brackets are clicked the code is displayed:
ETL Nodes in Technical Lineage
Technical Lineage also includes
ETL Nodes
, representing
Stored Procedures (SPs)
in the database. Stored Procedures are pre-written SQL scripts that execute complex data transformations and manipulations within the database. In our application, we refer to them as
ETL Nodes
.
Key Features of ETL Nodes:
Transformations on Columns
: ETL Nodes display the transformations applied to tables and columns within the lineage.
Stored Procedure Code Visibility
: Users can now
view the full SQL code of the stored procedure
from the ETL node.
Column-Level Transformations
: The lineage details now include transformations applied at the column level, providing deeper insights into data movement.
Just like any other node, the ETL node can also be set as context for viewing lineage from its perspective. The same thing can be done on transformations on ETL nodes.
Managing Lineage Permissions in User Roles
The
Lineage
section in user roles configuration allows managing access to lineage data. Below are the available permissions:
Permission Levels
User access to lineage features depends on assigned roles:
No Access
: Restricts lineage visibility.
Functional Lineage
: Allows entity and attribute-level exploration.
Functional and Technical Lineage
: Grants full access, including technical insights.
Entity Level
: Displays relationships between entities like tables or datasets.
Entity-Attribute Level
: Shows relationships at both entity and attribute levels.
Current Functionality
Admin Role
: Only admins can upload lineage data through the import process.
Upstream Nodes
: Users can add upstream nodes at the
table level
but not at the
column level
.
Demonstration
To add an upstream node:
Go to the
Table Detail Page
.
Click
Edit
to add upstream nodes at the table level.
Supported Data Sources
Lineage functionality is currently supported for:
Relational Databases
: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, IBM Db2, Azure SQL
Data Lakes and Warehouses
: Snowflake, Databricks, Azure Synapse, Netezza, Amazon S3
BI Tools
: Tableau, Power BI
Not Supported
: MongoDB, Salesforce, Azure Data Lake, and file uploads.
Enabling Lineage in Oracle
To enable lineage tracking from Oracle in DvSum, especially when stored procedures or packages are involved, the following setup is required.
Accessing Stored Procedure/Package Code
To extract lineage from stored procedures or packages, DvSum needs access to their source code. This source code is stored in Oracle’s
ALL_SOURCE
system view. The Oracle user should have
read-only access
to this view to allow DvSum to parse the code and identify lineage relationships.
You can use the following SQL query to retrieve the procedure or package code:
SELECT
OWNER,
NAME,
TYPE,
TEXT,
LINE
FROM
ALL_SOURCE
WHERE
OWNER IN ('{schema_names}')
Note
: Replace
{schema_names}
with the actual schema names where the procedures or packages are defined.
Source Configuration Requirement
Make sure that all relevant schemas (where the procedure or package code resides) are included in the source configuration in DvSum. If any required schemas are missing, lineage extraction may not work as expected.